Analogy: AI is like the dream of building a "thinking machine." ML, DL, and GenAI are different engineering paths to that dream.

Human Intelligence has

1. problem solving skills
2. decision making 
3. learning
4. understanding language
5. reasoning

AI - Artificial Intelligence
AI - machines to learn these skills from humans using the logics and then perform the tasks.(Human writes the rules)
-  Inputs --> Logic --> Output
- example - if temperature > 40 then turn on FAN.
- limitations:
1. more logic combinations required and more code
2. hard to maintain

To overcome these limitations ML create.

ML - Machine Learning
ML - Instead of writing rules by humans, machines learns from data.
example:

if (string.equals("lottery") {
sout("Mark as spam");
}

instead of above
ML use data set(collect data), probability, predictions, algorithms, 

example: ML learns like won the prize, meetings are scheduled and free cost. based on the trained datas, it will predict the spam emails.

It will work with many learned datas.

Deep Learning 
DP - Advanced of ML - its like neural networks like our brain which connects and recognize based on neural way. example - face recognition

-simple example - human brain would recognize like 
-this is mobile phone, it has types like iphone n andriod, type of models like vivo, pixel etc. like wise Deep learning recognize using neural networks.

-So these all are like trained ones, it won't create its own.

Generative AI
Gen AI originated to create own itself by LLM models - basic internal working mechanism - prediction of next token.
-Gen AI has many models like audio model, video model, image model, text model(LLM)
-LLM - Large Language Model - trained using huge test data 
-example: what is India - it will split like tokens In|di|a into different parts and it will converted it to vector(0's, 1's) 
   and it will analyze the data on deep inside then it will predict the possible output to be delivered.

RAG - Retrieval Augmented Analysis - It will have the own data to inject AI and it will have the present data to be delivered to the LLM.

Agentic AI - complete goal like to book the hotels. it would call(tool calling) the different apis like location apis, calendar apis, payment apis etc. 
    using these tool calling it will complete the whole task.

MCP server - Model Context Protocol
   It will act between the AI and tools to integrate each other.

--for example - i want to handle 5 toola for a task and those same tools we are using again to another task, instead of duplicating those tools again
make it as MCP server and reuse it.

-- another example - am having bit bucket, copilot
        bit bucket has all the repositories 
        copilot (LLM model)would helps to give the predictions like whats the error, which repo gets to commit, which team can responsible for that
           issue. those details we can get it only when we integrate the LLM model (AI) with the tools(bit bucket). here the MCP server helps to 
           integrate the ai and tools.

Prompt Engineering -- better prompts give the better output i.e., the thing is how we are getting our expected output from the LLM models.
        what you want to be in clear input prompts -- then will get the expected output. 















